[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're going to look at creating
append queries with two data sets.
And append query is when we take two or
more data sets,
and basically stack them on top of each
other, very much like what we did in
the previous video, but we're going
to look at how we can do it manually.
Having a look at our training schedule.
We have the instructor codes for
who will be teaching these courses, but
we'd really like to see
the instructor names.
So we need a way of pulling
that information through.
We do actually have the instructor list
on the instructors tab, but you can see,
we also have a problem.
We have two separate lists of instructors
making it very difficult to look them up.
What we want to do is
combine these two datasets.
So we have one list of instructors.
You will notice that the structure of
the two data sets is not identical.
The columns are in different sequences,
and the other instructors
has an additional column.
This is not going to be a problem for
the append query, as long as the column
headings are the same, and the append
query will match the data correctly.
And we're going to have a look at how
we can actually add a location to
the Sydney query.
In the first video, we mentioned that
when you create your query from data in
the current workbook,
it automatically converted to a table.
So you should probably do this yourself.
Now this table has already been created.
But we haven't done the one
that set the instructors.
So we're going to click
somewhere into that dataset,
come to our insert ribbon and click table.
Table shortcut, CTRL + T.
Our tables dose of headers,
so just click OK.
Now, we should give our
table a sensible name.
So coming on to our table design or
Table Tools design,
we're going to find a table
name on the far left.
And we're going to call this instructors,
Sydney, And press Enter.
We're now ready to create our queries.
Starting with the Sydney instructors,
we're going to come to our data ribbon,
and it's coming from the current workbook.
So we're going to choose from table or
range.
Now we do actually want to know when
we join our two queries that these
instructors are the Sydney instructors.
So we actually want to
add an additional column.
And we can do that right
here in Power Query.
We're going to come to
our ad column ribbon.
We're going to add a custom column and
we'll talk a lot more
about these next week.
I'm going to click custom column, and
we want to call this column location.
And we want the value in
the column to be Sydney.
So clicking into the next box opening
double quotes and type Sydney.
And then click OK.
Now because we use a table with a sensible
name, you'll see our query has picked
up the name from the table so
we don't need to change that.
all we need to do is Close and Load.
Back to the Home ribbon, Close and
Load, Close and Load two and
we don't want to put this data
back into the Excel workbook.
So we can say Only Create Connection and
then click OK.
Let's create the query for
other Instructors.
So click into the table,
Data ribbon, From Table Range.
No change is needed here, so
Close & Load, Close & Load two,
and again, only create a connection.
We now have our two queries,
we're going to go and append them.
If you're working with an older version,
and you don't have the Get Data button,
are you going to choose new query?
If you have the current version,
we're going to click get data.
Combine queries, and we're going to use
an append query now we
are trying to join two tables.
Our primary table.
The first data set we'll see
is our instructors, Sydney.
And the table we want to append
is our instructors other, and
we're going to click OK and
there is our complete list.
Instructors along with their location,
let's give this query
a more sensible name.
So where it's got the name of hand one,
we're going to replace
that with instructors.
And then we're going to Close and Load.
And once again, we're going to create
connection only because we're going to use
that data in the query, but we don't need
the list actually sitting in the workbook.
So click, Ok.
So what we saw in this video was
how we could join two data sets.
From within an Excel workbook
using an append query.
In the next video, we're going to
look at how we can join more than two
datasets when pulling data
from external sources.